It's useful to have access to a global values from time to time for using your jobs.
Sometimes these global values are set by you or your organization,
other times they're built into the CI/CD tool.
CircleCI has a handful of values called pipeline values that might come in handy.
You can use them almost anywhere in your jobs with a simple syntax.
Let's take a quick look.
What I'm showing you here is
CircleCI's wonderful documentation and the section on pipeline values.
Now you could get to this documentation very easily.
I left you a link down below the video,
but let's take a look at a few of the values.
Here, we've got a pipeline.id.
This is extremely useful when we want to name things uniquely,
but based on the pipeline.
So that we can share them sometimes between jobs.
Each job may not be able to communicate with one another,
but we can at least have some common ground with the pipeline.id.
We also have a pipeline.number,
which is just an auto incremented number that
is getting bigger and bigger for every build that we run.
We also are able to key off of different things like the git URL,
the project type, the git tag, and the branch.
We're able to include these values in our code,
in our shell scripts, for instance.
Here's an example job where we have an environment variable.
We're trying to build up an environment variable called CIRCLE_COMPARE_URL.
We reference a pipeline value by wrapping it in these double brackets,
and then we just say pipeline.project.git_url.
This is building up a URL so that we can actually do maybe
a diff on some files on a git revision.
It's pulling in the different git revision, the SHA tags.
Here's the base revision and here's the revision.
Also, we can echo things out to the console,
this is a pipeline ID.
Then we can use the pipeline value,
which is just pipeline.id.
So incredibly useful stuff.
Now, pipeline values cannot be used outside of the job context.
For example, you cannot use these in a shell script.